

Day-to-day study operation
==============================


Starting and stopping data collection
----------------------------------------

You can start and stop data collection independently and whenever you
want. On your study detail page, go to “change state” -> “Start” or
“Pause.”

You can also independently switch your study between discoverable
(listed at lookit.mit.edu/studies) and non-discoverable (not listed at
lookit.mit.edu/studies, but accessible at the direct link). For
instance, you may want to start off by making it non-discoverable to do
some piloting with families in the lab.

If participants follow a direct link to your study and it is paused,
they will see a message `like
this <https://lookit.mit.edu/studies/c7001e3a-cfc5-4054-a8e0-0f5e520950ab/>`__.

Making changes to your study
----------------------------------------

If you make other changes to your study - updating the fields in the
study details, the age range, the code used, etc. - your study will be
automatically “rejected” and will require review by Lookit staff again
before you can make it active. This is quick but does require manual
action on our part. (Permissions are designed for somewhat larger-scale
use rather than a small number of trusted collaborators.) Feel free to
contact us ahead of time to coordinate if you need immediate turnaround.

Monitoring data as it comes in
----------------------------------------

We strongly recommend reviewing consent videos and looking through data
at least twice a week to make sure you become aware of any issues
participants are having in a timely manner. (E.g., you want to know if
people are confused by your directions, if there’s any weird bug with a
new version of Firefox, etc.!)

.. _compensation:

Compensating participants
----------------------------------------

If you are compensating participants, you will also be (for now)
emailing them through the Lookit email interface to give them gift
cards, using the user IDs you can see in the consent manager and/or the
response data.

Participant compensation should never depend on the child’s behavior -
*even if the child fusses out and/or the data is unusable*. In general,
this means we try to pay anyone who submits a valid consent video.
Payment for the parent’s/child’s time is ethical; accidentally paying
the parent to take extraordinary measures to get their child to sit
through the study because they think that’s necessary to get paid is not
:)

The exception to the above guideline is that if someone tries the study
but only gets a very short way in (maybe only consent), then comes back
and does the study again, you would generally pay them just once - even
if you might have erred on the side of caution and paid them even for
the first attempt.

You are free to put limits on how many times / how often people can
participate and be compensated, and to require that the child be, say,
in the age range for the study in order to participate. Basically, stuff
the parent can know before they get started is fair game. (But be
careful and err on the side of payment if there is any discrepancy
between your listed age range - e.g. “for three-year-olds” - and the
min/max used for automatic warnings; see `the
docs <https://lookit.readthedocs.io/en/develop/researchers-using-platform.html#creating-a-study>`__.)
If a parent participates with a child well outside the age range, you
might want to email them to thank them for participating, let them know
it’s fine to check out the study and you hope they found it interesting
but since this is for x-month-olds you won’t be able to use their data
or provide compensation.

Rarely, adults without children may check out a study and even make a
consent recording. We tell our students not to do this but you never
know :) To avoid feeling obligated to pay them (which would probably be
surprising to them too) you’re welcome to state in your compensation
info that the child needs to be visible in the consent video. (You don’t
actually have to enforce that for people who get the kid later, which is
reasonable - but this way if someone ONLY submits the consent video and
doesn’t have a child present, you don’t have to pay them.)

Parents who ran into a technical problem and want to try again
----------------------------------------------------------------

Sometimes parents may contact you to see if they can try your study
again because they had a technical problem or their child wasn’t
interested the first time. Whether you can use the data may depend on
the particular circumstances and your study design, but on a technical
level it’s fine - you can let the parent know they may see a warning
about having already participated but that they can safely ignore it.

.. _confirm_consent:

Confirming consent
----------------------------------------

You will need to review consent videos using the Consent Manager tool
and determine whether each one represents clear informed consent. (See
`the
docs <https://lookit.readthedocs.io/en/develop/researchers-manage-consent.html>`__.)
Only after confirming consent do you receive full access to the data
collected during the session.

If you come across a video where you think a parent meant to consent to
participate, but you do not have an adequate recording, you can email
the participant to ask for confirmation. See the ‘informed consent
guidelines’ in the `Terms of Use <https://lookit.mit.edu/termsofuse/>`__
for guidance. Here is an example of an email we have sent to confirm
consent:

   Thanks so much for participating in the Lookit study “Your baby the
   physicist” with your child! We really appreciate your time - and
   you’re one of our first participants, so we’re extra excited :)

   Unfortunately, we don’t have a video recording of you saying you
   agree to participate - we suspect it may not have been clear that you
   needed to read that out loud. If it’s okay for us to view your videos
   and use the data, could you respond with “Yes, I am this child’s
   parent or legal guardian and we both agreed to participate in this
   study”? Thanks again, and I’m very sorry for the extra hassle!

   If you did NOT mean to consent to participate in the study, no action
   is required. You can ignore this email and we will not use your data.

Sending child-related data to families
----------------------------------------

Parents are able to review their study video in the Lookit interface. If
you would like to send them additional information related to their
participation, please try to do so using the “Message Participants”
interface. That interface supports html but does not allow attachments.
If you need to share files with the families, please share a link to the
file. For example, Dropbox Business allows file-sharing links to be
password-protected with an expiration date.

If a parent requests video deleted, or you need to delete video for any other reason
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please contact Lookit staff and we will delete the video(s). You'll need to provide the 
response UUID.

If a parent invokes GDPR specifically in their request, again please
contact Lookit (complying is straightforward but we’ll notify OGC).
